the bio-temporal chamber.
DOCTOR: Activate
to be all right?
Is she going
Not if you don't all
clear out of here
and let me
do my work.
She's my mother.
I'm staying.
delicate procedure
This is a very
some peace and quiet.
and I could use
The Doctor's right.
PARIS:
Let's let him
do his work.
All right.
( labored breathing )
( door opens, closes )
I wish I'd told you this before,
but better late than never.
You're the finest friend
I've ever had.
bio-temporal chamber on line.
Prepare to bring the
We'll begin in approximately
five minutes.
Grandma, are you awake?
I brought you a present.
Grandma Kes?
theme music playing )
( dramatic
I finally finished making
your birthday present.
Sorry it's late,
but I wanted
to get it right.
I... I don't know you.
What do you mean?
I'm Andrew...
your grandson.
I don't know you.
Dr. van Gogh.
Doctor.
What is it?
recognize me.
She doesn't
Kes?
How are you feeling?
Where am I?
What is this place?
You're in Sick Bay.
Do you know who I am?
No.
Yes.
I've seen you before.
Do you know my name?
The boy, he called you
Dr. van Gogh.
That's right.
I was your finest friend.
You said
I've ever said that exactly,
Well... I'm not sure
but... that doesn't mean
it's not true.
How could I be your friend?
I don't know you.
Tell me what you do remember.
Uh, people around me,
crowded around me.
You, a boy, a young girl.
I was in a chamber...
A bio-temporal chamber.
Good.
I was inside it and you told
someone to activate it.
I'm afraid you're confused.
I discussed the bio-temporal
chamber with you,
to put you inside it just yet.
but we're not ready
Can you recall anything else
besides those people you saw?
Anything else about your life?
No.
Go find the rest
of your family.
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
What's the big hurry?
I'm sorry, Captain.
I have to go.
What was that
all about?
getting worse, Captain.
I'm afraid Kes is
is near total.
Her amnesia
Fewer than one percent
of her engrams
remained intact.
It's as if her memory
were wiped clean.
Is it some sort
of senility?
never treated
Maybe. I've
a nine-year-old
Ocampan before.
For all I know,
it's a perfectly normal part
of their aging process.
It's hard to believe
that she performed
microsurgery on my elbow
just a few weeks ago.
A few weeks ago,
she was a healthy woman,
but this morilogium
comes on abruptly
and then progresses
with a rapidity
I've never seen before.
How are you
coming along
with the bio-temporal
chamber?
As I told you, it's a completely
revolutionary procedure.
I have no idea
if it'll work.
Under normal circumstances,
I'd want to perform extensive
tests on the apparatus,
but we're losing her
too fast.
If I don't try it now,
it may be too late.
If you really believe
it will prolong her life...
If we're lucky, it may
buy her another year.
the family's consent.
I think you have
You should go ahead
and do it.
I'm so cold.
KES:
I'm cold.
No wonder.
has dropped to 14.8--
Your temperature
almost two degrees
below normal.
What does
that mean?
I'm not sure.
What?
Her cells are in a state
of bio-temporal flux.
how that could be happening
I don't understand
before I put her
in the chamber.
I'm cold.
KES:
( gasps )
( sighs )
Look, Mom, I'm almost finished
with Grandma's present.
ANDREW:
It's wonderful, sweetheart.
WOMAN:
I'm sure Grandma will think
it was well worth the wait.
I hope so.
ANDREW:
I still feel bad
about not having it ready
in time for her party.
Hello.
How was your nap?
Andrew?
Grandma,
don't look.
You'll ruin
the surprise.
Why don't you sit down?
I'll get you some tea.
Where am I?
In your quarters.
What quarters?
Aboard Voyager.
What's wrong?
I don't know who you are.
But you...
I know who you are.
Tell me what's happening.
How did I
get here?
grandfather and father.
Andrew, get your
Tell them to meet us
in Sick Bay.
Yes... Sick Bay.
I remember that place.
I was just there.
Uh, when?
Just a few minutes ago.
asked me some questions.
Dr. van Gogh
I couldn't remember
anything.
You haven't been to Sick
Bay for over a week--
since you stopped
working there.
Working?
What kind of work?
Don't you
remember?
the ship's doctors.
You were one of
I worked there with you.
Who are you?
I'm your daughter...
Linnis.
But I don't remember you.
Do you remember
anything at all?
crowded around me...
Just people
voices...
everyone to leave
The Doctor told
and then he told
someone else
the bio-temporal chamber.
to activate
He's been working
on that.
mentioned it to you.
He may have
And then I woke up
and there was a boy,
Andrew,
standing over me
with a present...
calling me Grandma.
But Andrew hasn't finished
your present yet.
still working on it
You just saw him
in your quarters.
But he was there.
The Doctor sent him
to get my family,
and I woke up in that bed
and I was cold,
in the quarters and...
were dreaming.
Maybe you
( sighs )
I... I don't think so.
Well, none of the things
that you remember
before waking from your nap
have happened.
How do you know?
Listen to me, Mother.
You're confused right now,
that's very frightening.
and I'm sure
But you need to trust me.
I'm your daughter
and I love you.
Now, please, come with me.
Come.
expecting this.
I've been
The onset of morilogium.
She's lost more than 98 percent
of her memory engrams.
Morilogium?
The final phase
of the Ocampan life-span,
Mother.
Are you saying
that I'm dying?
can help it.
Not if I
What do you mean?
Kes, it's me, Tom.
Your husband.
Tom.
We're losing her.
How long?
If we do nothing,
a matter of weeks.
But I'm working on something
to extend her life-span.
It involves treating her
with a bio-temporal field
in order to push
her cells back
to an earlier stage
of entropic decay.
It's highly experimental,
but if it works,
it might buy her some time.
No. My mother's
always accepted
only live nine years.
that she would
the natural end of her life,
If she's reaching
she wouldn't want extraordinary
measures taken to extend it,
especially not in the state
she's in now.
to keep your mother with us,
If the Doctor has a way
even for one more day,
we have to let him try.
We're not talking about
a tested medical procedure here.
We're talking about
a radical experiment.
Sweetheart, I understand
how upsetting this is.
But if it were you
on that bio-bed,
I'd feel just like Tom does.
KES: Everyone, listen
to me, please.
Yes, listen to her.
LINNIS:
Mother, tell us
what you want.
what's going on here.
I want to know
Maybe the morilogium
is causing my amnesia,
but that doesn't explain
from Sick Bay to my quarters,
how I seem to suddenly jump
in a bio-temporal chamber.
or how I remember being
Kes, it's possible
the morilogium
to experience delusions.
is causing you
No, they're not
delusions!
I want you to lie down.
No.
Leave her alone.
Your grandmother's
very sick, son.
Maybe, but she's
not delusional.
She's the smartest
person I know.
We should listen
to her.
Oh, I'm cold.
has dropped 2.7 degrees.
Her body temperature
A jolly good fellow ♪
ALL: ♪ ...For she's
♪ For she's
♪ For she's a jolly good
Fellow ♪
♪ Which nobody
Can deny ♪♪
Happy ninth, Kes.
Well, go ahead.
Make a wish.
you waiting for?
Well, what are
Blow out the candles.
It's good to see that old lung
is still working, Kessy.
Happy birthday,
sweetheart.
Why, you know, I haven't
made one of these
I became Security Officer.
since... well, since
to relinquish your commission
Perhaps you would care
and return to the scene
of your former triumphs.
You keep working
on that sense of humor,
Commander Vulcan.
one of these days.
You'll get it
Jimbalian fudge--
your favorite.
Some of us ought to be
watching our calories,
but after all, it is
a special occasion.
Andrew.
a present for you, Grandma.
I'm sorry I don't have
for something special
I've got an idea
I'm going to make,
but I've been
too busy with
schoolwork.
a chance to start it.
I haven't had
I think it'll be
worth the wait.
Come and talk to Grandma
for a minute, will you?
Sure.
you a few questions
I'm going to ask
and I want you
to think very carefully
before you answer them,
all right?
I always think
before I speak.
You taught me that.
Where were you before you
came to this party?
At my physics lesson
in Engineering.
And then you came
directly here?
your quarters to get you.
No. I stopped at
Don't you remember?
Andrew, stop monopolizing
your grandmother's time.
who'd would like to wish her
There are other people
a happy birthday,
you know.
yours, Doctor.
She's all
That cake looks great.
Excuse me.
It's amazing to think
that you weren't
even a year old
when we first met.
Not much older
than Andrew.
something wrong with me.
Doctor, there's
What is it?
Promise to hear me out
and not assume
I'm delusional.
Why do you think I'd ever
make such an assumption?
Promise.
Of course.
I've lost all
but a few of my memories,
and the memories
I do have
don't coincide
with anyone else's.
more specific?
Can you be
Well, I was in Sick Bay
and you and a woman,
my daughter,
were arguing about
prolonging my life,
appeared in my quarters,
and then I suddenly
and then I simply
appeared here.
none of that happened.
As far as I know,
you were dreaming?
Is it possible
No. I was awake.
I'm sure of it.
But nobody else remembers
the things I do.
I hate to say this,
but... it's possible
that these strange experiences
you're having
are related to the onset
of the morilogium.
You talked about that.
You wanted to put me
in a bio-temporal chamber
to stop my aging process.
How could you possibly
know about that?
Because you told me.
I only came up
with the idea
for the bio-temporal chamber
this morning.
tell you about it today,
I was going to
here, at the party as a sort of
birthday surprise.
If that were true, then how
could I already know about it?
but we'd better get you
I don't know,
and find out.
to Sick Bay
She appears to have lost
more than 95 percent
of her memory engrams.
Is that symptomatic
of the morilogium?
I don't know.
I have no basis
for comparison.
No other Ocampans
on board.
Don't worry.
We'll get to the
bottom of this.
I do have memories.
They just don't coincide
with anyone else's.
a belated birthday present.
First, Andrew gave me
working on the present.
Then, he said he was
And now he just apologized
for not starting it yet.
you're experiencing
It's almost as if
events in reverse.
Maybe there's some kind
of time paradox at work.
There is another
possibility.
Given that Kes
has knowledge
of a treatment I have not
yet devised, it's possible
she's developed some
sort of precognition.
Are you saying I can see
into the future?
demonstrated some
Well, you've
pretty extraordinary
mental powers
telepathy, telekinesis.
over the years--
And precognition wouldn't
be unprecedented.
Some species, including the
Yattho of the Beta Quadrant,
predict future events
have been known to
with uncanny accuracy.
See if you can confirm this
theory about precognition.
Tom and I will begin
In the meantime,
for temporal anomalies.
scanning
We'll do everything
we can to help you.
I'd like to do something
to help myself.
What did you
have in mind?
quite a full life on this ship.
Well, I seem to have lived
Maybe if I had a look
at my medical files
or checked other records
of my activities,
to fill in some of the blanks.
I might be able
Well, you may have lost
your memories,
but you certainly haven't
lost your determination.
Hi.
Oh, hello.
How's it coming?
I've had a busy life.
It's hard to know
where to start.
How about you?
Well, we've tried
every kind of temporal scan
Harry could think of,
but we still haven't
been able to find anything
to explain what's
been happening to you.
Your initial physical exam.
when you came on board.
I remember
right from the beginning.
I had a crush on you
I tried to hide it,
but Neelix sensed it
he ever jealous.
and, boy, was
Neelix?
You don't remember?
You and he were
( sighs )
involved for quite a while.
( clears throat )
Oh, one of your
prenatal exams.
to Linnis's heartbeat.
When we listened
That was quite a day.
What about this?
It says I got some kind
of radiation poisoning
on stardate 50973.
the beginning
That was
of the Year of Hell.
"Year of Hell"?
Well, that's what some of us
call it now.
under virtually constant attack
We were
by a race called the Krenim.
The ship almost didn't make it.
The Doctor was off-line
for months,
a lot of good people--
and we lost
Joe Carey... B'Elanna.
Captain Janeway,
B'Elanna?
I keep forgetting that you
don't remember any of them.
B'Elanna was...
who was very special to me.
someone
When she died,
I wanted to die, too.
I felt like
But you...
you helped me
through it.
I'm sorry.
No. It's my fault.
No.
anything wrong. It's just...
You haven't done
You don't remember
any of our life together?
Well, that's all right.
I've got enough feelings
for both of us.
I had for you will come back.
Maybe the feelings
You were asking
about the radiation
poisoning.
were exposed.
A lot of us
During the first
Krenim attack,
one of the chroniton
torpedo fragments
leaked radiation into the ship.
Chroniton torpedoes?
penetrate our shields
They were able to
because their torpedoes
were in a constant state
of temporal flux.
Wait a minute...
I think we may be
onto something.
We'd better go talk
to the Doctor.
Come on.
these chroniton particles,
If I was infected with
to what's happening to me now.
there might be a connection
Exactly.
scanning for residual...
Maybe we should try
Say cheese.
KIM:
Oh...
I think he's got
your nose, Mother.
So how does it feel
to be a grandfather?
A lot better than it does
to have you for a son-in-law.
What's the date?
The date?
Yes. The stardate.
It's 56947. Why?
Over six months.
Mother, what's going on?
talk to the Doctor.
Tom, we have to
Come on.
As far as I can tell,
I've jumped backwards
a total of five times
so far.
Is there any discernible
pattern to these jumps?
apparently random.
No. They're
Uh, one time it seemed
to span for a few weeks
was half a year.
and the last
Each time I arrive, I seem
to exist in temporal sync
with the rest of you
for a while,
but before I can make anyone
understand what's happening,
at an earlier time in my life,
I find myself
and just before it happens,
I seem to experience
in body temperature.
a sudden drop
( beeping )
Hm...
Now, this could explain
a thing or two.
What is it?
I'm detecting high-level
chroniton radiation
in your cells.
So I was right.
There is a connection.
But Kes was
inoculated
rest of the crew
along with the
over three years ago.
Yes, however, everyone was left
with trace amounts of the
radiation in their bodies.
those residual chronitons
For some reason,
have reactivated in Kes.
Why?
The bio-temporal chamber.
My thinking exactly.
mind explaining?
Would you two
obvious, Lieutenant.
It's really quite
Your wife is traveling
backward through time.
I came into existence
It's as though
of my own death
at the moment
without any memories.
I've been living my life
backwards ever since--
jumping progressively
to earlier moments in my life,
accumulating memories
and experiences as I go.
Your past has become
my future.
Doctor, any theory about
what's causing this?
In approximately six months,
I will apparently expose Kes
of bio-temporal field
to some type
in a highly experimental, but
nonetheless brilliant attempt
to stop her aging process.
And it's this attempt
to Kes's current predicament?
which leads
What I will, apparently,
fail to realize
is that the bio-temporal field
is going to reactivate
the dormant chroniton particles
in her cells,
bringing Kes out of temporal
sync with the rest of us.
Is there any way
to stop Kes
from continuing
these jumps?
of the chroniton poisoning.
Yes. Purge her completely
KIM: To do that,
we'd need to know
temporal variance
the precise
which contaminated the ship.
of the specific torpedo
Tactical sensors were not
functioning at the time.
There is no data regarding
the torpedo in question.
PARIS: Let me get one
thing straight, Doc.
Is it possible, if this
keeps happening to Kes
that she might actually
jump back into a time
knew any of us?
before she
DOCTOR: Worse than that,
Mr. Paris.
It's possible she may
eventually jump back
before she even existed.
to a time...
CHAKOTAY: Captain's Log,
Stardate 55836.2.
in temporal sync with us
Kes has remained
for two days now,
but since we don't know
when she may jump again,
we can't afford to rest
until we've found some way
to help her.
I'm going to try running
a hypothalamic scan.
establish a pattern
Maybe we can
to the drops in your
body temperature.
You're very good
at this, aren't you?
I had a very good teacher.
Doctor van Gogh?
You.
I'm sorry. All this
must be taking you
away from your baby
just now.
You must be wanting to spend
every second with him.
awkward around him sometimes.
Actually, I feel a little
Harry's always
and playing with him, but...
singing to him
much more comfortable
Well, I seem to be
with a molecular scanner
than I am with a diaper.
I don't think that...
Oh, Linnis,
Kes, I may have found a way
to prevent your next jump.
I've erected a containment field
that may keep you here.
your confinement in Sick Bay.
It's going to require
I'll keep working here.
Linnis... you must
be a good mother.
that Andrew grows up
I happen to know
to be a wonderful child.
Hello, Tom.
I thought... maybe you
could use some company.
I feel like I'm in a cage.
Dr. van Gogh says...
Dr. "van Gogh"?
settled on "Mozart."
I thought you
Evidently, my interest
in the great figures
of art and culture
will be an ongoing process.
Well...
"Vincent", uh...
how about letting me
inside this thing?
I'm afraid that wouldn't
be advisable.
( sighing ):
Okay, then...
How about another
installment of
The Early Years?
Tom and Kes:
I'd enjoy that.
Um...
our wedding reception.
Well, there was, uh,
Harry was my best man.
He got so nervous
Heh. He...
when he stood up
to give the toast
that he spilled champagne
all over my dress uniform.
( laughing )
What is it?
At the time,
the happiest day of my life...
I thought that was
just got better and better.
but every day
to have you here now.
It means so much
( door opens )
I think I may have
found something.
What is it?
studying the effects
Well, I was
other crew members and I...
of the chronitons on
( alarm sounding )
What's that?
PARIS:
has dropped 1.9 degrees.
Kes' temperature
the containment field.
Linnis, monitor
I'm going to try to elevate
her temperature.
Her temperature's
still dropping.
We're losing containment.
Increase the field
amplitude.
Kes...?
It's not working.
We're losing her.
DOCTOR:
Set field polarization
to maximum!
Do something!
( panting )
The sac is opening...
What's happening?
"What's happening?"
What do you mean,
You're having a baby.
Now, hold still.
Where am I?
Exactly where I told you
not to be--
on a shuttlecraft.
I have to see the Doctor.
if he were still around.
Well, that'd be nice
( moans )
you were in no condition
I told you,
to come on a supply mission,
but did you listen to me?
( cries out )
( panting )
I can see the toes...
( grunting )
It's coming...
Kes...
Oh, it's a girl.
( baby crying )
Oh...
Linnis.
Shh...
She's beautiful.
Yes, she is.
Yes, just like
her mother.
Tom, listen.
I love you, Kes.
We need to talk.
( beeping )
Just a minute.
But...
What is it?
Voyager's under attack.
( tense dramatic
score playing )
Congratulations.
Thanks.
celebration'll have to wait.
But it looks like the
I'll get Kes and the baby
to the Mess Hall.
Captain Chakotay wants you
to go to the weapons array
the targeting scanners
and modulate
to a parametric
frequency.
He's going to try
to knock out
torpedo launchers
the chroniton
before they're fired.
Chroniton torpedoes--
the "Year of Hell."
What?
You told me that the crew
referred to this time
as the "Year of Hell."
When did I tell
you that?
It's a long story.
( baby crying )
You'll have to
tell me later.
I've got to get to
the weapons array.
to lie down, will you?
Neelix, get her
Neelix, listen
very carefully.
There's something important
I have to tell you.
( baby crying )
Neelix told us what's been
happening to you, Kes.
How are you holding up?
We're both fine.
It's quite
a story.
we were close to a solution.
Just before the last jump,
The Doctor was working on...
The Doctor?
Well, it's good to know
get him back on line.
we'll eventually
may be too late.
"Eventually"
to help Kes now.
We've got
We discovered that what's
been happening to me
to the chroniton poisoning
is related
I suffered during
a Krenim attack.
the exact temporal variance
We have to determine
of the torpedo, so that we...
been off-line for weeks.
The main computer's
contain that information,
Even if the sensor logs
we can't access them.
bio-temporal containment field.
You have to put me in the
I know it didn't work last time,
but with a few modifications...
We've only got life-support
on three out of 14 decks.
And we've had to divert
all remaining power
to knock out the Krenim's
torpedo launchers.
We don't even have
a Sick Bay anymore,
much less the resources
containment field.
to create a bio-
I'm sorry.
something to help her.
We've got to do
I'm open to
suggestions.
I'm cold.
I'll get you a blanket.
No. You don't
understand.
I'm abou...
I'm about...
( steel drum music playing )
Tom...
Hey, Kes.
Some party, huh?
I have to talk to you.
TORRES:
Tom...
I'm sorry I'm late.
You must be B'Elanna.
( all laugh )
Well, the last time
I checked.
Is something wrong?
Actually...
there is something wrong.
JANEWAY:
Red Alert.
to battle stations.
All hands
Acknowledged.
Tuvok, fire phasers.
( grunts )
Who the hell are they?
KES:
They're called
the Krenim.
How do you know that?
Captain Janeway?
What is it, Kes?
What do you know
about them?
Shields down to 39 percent,
Captain.
I don't understand
how these torpedoes
are ripping right through
our shields.
Evasive maneuvers,
Mr. Paris.
B'Elanna, can we reroute power
to the forward shields?
I'm already trying.
TORRES:
Captain, these torpedoes
are chroniton-based.
They're passing through
our shields
because they're in a state
of temporal flux.
( yelling )
agitated voices )
( alarm blaring;
They're dead.
( dramatic theme playing )
B'Elanna!
We're losing life-support.
Hull breach on Deck 7.
Evacuate the deck.
Tom, I need you at the conn.
Aye, sir.
Commander, they're arming
launchers again.
their torpedo
another direct hit.
We cannot sustain
something about these weapons.
Kes, you seem to know
Do you have any idea
how we can stop them?
I'm not sure, but I think
it has something to do
the targeting scanners.
with remodulating
That could work.
KIM:
If we remodulate the scanners
to a parametric frequency,
we might be able to destroy
the torpedo launchers
before they fire.
Mr. Tuvok, you heard the man.
Tom, bring us about.
Ready, Commander.
Fire!
Do you have a casualty report?
CHAKOTAY:
and B'Elanna, we lost 11 people.
KIM: Including Captain Janeway
What about the ship?
Starboard shield generators
and warp drive are off-line,
on Decks 4 through 12.
and power is down
Make Deck 5 your priority.
Sick Bay up and running again.
We've got to get
Aye, sir.
Kes, as far as what you say
is happening to you...
that my condition
I understand
can't be a priority now.
need you to stay here
Tom, I'm going to
and help treat
these people.
When this is over,
we're all going to have
a lot of grieving to do.
How are you doing?
Tom?
I know it doesn't
seem possible now,
but you're going
to be all right.
I wish I could believe you.
You can.
Thanks.
radiation leakage
Kes, we've got
coming from one of the Krenim
torpedo fragments.
People are starting
to complain of nausea.
Chroniton radiation.
This is it.
I'm infected.
Where's the radiation
coming from?
It's lodged in a Jefferies
tube on Deck 11, Section 2.
I've got to get down there.
You can't, the entire
deck is sealed off.
I have to find the exact
temporal variance
of that torpedo.
You can't go near that thing.
You'll be burned to a crisp.
I know what I'm doing.
You stay here and help
Tom, all right?
Yes, but...
( alarm blaring )
( beeping )
( clears throat )
( coughing )
Kes, how are you coming
analgesic compounds?
with those
Doctor, you've lost
your hair.
I beg your pardon?
It's a long story.
The important thing is,
of the chroniton torpedo
the temporal variance
was 1.47 microseconds.
As far as I can determine,
of six years into my past.
I've now jumped a total
Do you have any theory
as to the cause of these jumps?
she and the rest of the crew
According to Kes,
by chroniton radiation
will be infected
approximately 11 months
from now.
Everyone will be inoculated
will appear to vanish.
and the effects
However, some five years later,
when I attempt an experimental--
ingenious procedure
and I might add,
to extend her life-span--
the bio-temporal field
I expose her to will trigger
dormant chroniton particles,
taking Kes out of temporal sync
and causing her to begin her
backward journey through time.
In all my years
in Starfleet,
a phenomenon quite like this.
I've never come across
Kes has been able to provide us
with the precise temporal
variance of the torpedo
which infected her.
backward in time, she's
Since Kes is moving
by the radiation poisoning.
already been infected
a bio-temporal chamber
If we can set up
to a precisely modulated field
and expose her
of antichroniton particles, we
feel this may purge her system
and bring her back in temporal
sync with the rest of us.
Well, we better get moving.
For all we know, Kes's
next jump will take her
we're not here to help her.
back to a time when
Captain, there's something else
I have to tell you.
In about six months,
you're going to enter
a region of space controlled
by a race called the Krenim.
You must avoid them
at all costs.
Tell me more.
TORRES:
I'm ready to bring
the chamber online.
Synaptic relays are operational.
How are her vital signs?
body temperature 14 degrees.
Pulse normal,
Chroniton level
at 79 roentgens.
the chamber, Lieutenant.
Go ahead and activate
Increase the bio-temporal
field stress.
Bringing field stress
to 25 kilodynes.
All right, let's try
the antichronitons.
you're ready, Doc.
Whenever
Initiating antichroniton burst.
Ten MEVs, five second pulse.
Pulse steady.
Body temperature at 14.2 degrees
and rising.
chroniton count?
What about her
JANEWAY:
Chroniton count...
is 71 roentgens
and dropping.
It's working.
Lieutenant Torres,
increase the field
DOCTOR:
strength to 30 kilodynes.
Right.
another burst.
Initiating
15 MEVs, five
second pulse.
Body temperature, 14.9 degrees.
Chroniton count, 68 roentgens...
Sixty...
Fifty-seven...
Fifty-two...
You need a cook.
NEELIX:
you've tasted my angla'bosque.
You haven't lived until
It will be my job
to anticipate your needs
before you know
you have them.
Not again.
And I anticipate
your first need will be me.
I'm sorry.
sound strange to you both,
I know this is going to
but I don't belong here.
But we discussed this.
You don't understand.
in time, getting younger.
I'm traveling backwards
my chroniton levels.
We have to lower
You've got to get me
into the bio-temporal
chamber right away.
I-I'm sorry, Captain.
I-I didn't quite
anticipate this.
Listen to me, please.
Sweeting, try to calm down.
I assure you, Captain,
she's never behaved
this way before.
Hold on a minute,
Mr. Neelix.
Kes, why don't you
start over slowly?
It begins about eight years
in the future
when I'm about to die...
No!
Time for dinner.
MALE:
What's wrong, Kes?
Who are you?
What is this place?
We don't have
time to play
our guessing game
right now, Kes.
You know how your mother gets
when we're late to the table.
You're my father.
That's right, and you're
my favorite daughter,
but don't tell anyone.
Listen to me.
Something terrible's
been happening to me.
What's wrong?
so I've got to explain quickly.
There might not be much time,
Please try to believe me.
a starship called Voyager.
I've been living aboard
A starship... I see.
So now it's not only the surface
you're dreaming about exploring.
Listen to me.
I did go to the surface,
or, rather, I will go there,
and the people aboard the ship,
they're going to rescue me
from the Kazon
and take me
with them.
finish telling me
Why don't you
about your adventures
after dinner?
No! There's no time.
You've got to believe me.
One moment, I was
this old woman,
and then...
and then,
Kes, we're late.
Father, please.
( groaning )
( yelling in pain )
I can see the toes!
It's coming, Martis.
( yelling in pain )
It's a girl.
( baby wailing )
Oh!
Oh, Kes!
Oh...
( heartbeat thudding )
It's a girl.
( baby wailing )
Oh!
Oh, she's so...
She's so beautiful.
Kes!
Oh...
she'll see the sun.
I think one day,
( gurgling )
( tricorder beeping )
51 roentgens.
Forty-six...
Thirty-four.
Another antichroniton burst--
20 MEVs.
Right.
Levels are continuing to drop.
Pulse normal.
Body temperature steady
at 16.3 degrees.
( tricorder beeping )
are at zero roentgens.
Chroniton levels
Welcome back, Kes.
What's the date?
How old am I?
The same age you were
the bio-temporal chamber--
when we put you into
a healthy three years
and two months.
And due to an extraordinary
display of medical heroics,
you're back in temporal sync
with the rest of us.
So, I'm going to become
a security officer.
How about that?
Fortunately,
Mr. Neelix,
been describing
what Kes has
one possible future.
is merely
On each occasion
that she jumped
to a previous time,
her subsequent actions
most likely altered the future
from that moment on.
Good point, Tuvok.
Maybe I'll turn out to be
Chief Security Officer.
KIM:
So, Kes...
have you regained all
your memories of the past?
supply of replicator rations
I remember last month's
that you borrowed
that you owe me...
what you're asking.
if that's
I haven't forgotten.
Don't worry.
I realize
it's only hypothetical,
but still,
I'd be curious to know
what sorts
of medical breakthroughs
I'm going to make
in this possible future.
I've seen everything
It's not as if
over the next six years.
that's going to happen
I only remember
short periods
I experienced
between jumps.
I bet you found out
Even so,
interesting things.
some pretty
Tell us what you know.
Yeah, Kes.
Careful, Tom.
CHAKOTAY:
that you leave Voyager
You may find out
only to join a monastery.
( laughter )
a little credit.
Hey, give him
I'll bet he gets married
and has a family.
Don't mention it.
Thank you.
Are you telling?
as Tuvok said,
Well,
of one possible future.
I've only seen pieces
You know what?
PARIS:
I don't want to know.
Don't tell me.
mystery in my life.
I like a little
Tom's right.
JANEWAY:
I think we should all leave
the future to the future.
While I agree it would
not be wise for Kes
her experiences public,
to make all of
anything she knows
a report on
about these Krenim
might be useful.
I'll get started right away.
Hang on a minute.
JANEWAY:
Stay and enjoy your party.
I didn't mean now.
If there's one thing this
experience has taught me,
no time like the present.
it's that there's
( all scoff )
dramatic music playing )
( light
theme music playing )
( dramatic